this hard drive contains 25 million
pieces of malware and this computer is
about to become very very sick what do
you mean threat service has stopped
Windows Defender is completely
disabled but I guess that's what happens
when you send $500 to a faceless person
named smelly who runs a shady Network
that collects develops studies and
reverse Engineers nefarious code so why
did I do that
because if you're trying to learn about
computer security this is probably the
most valuable textbook you could find it
contains their entire repository of
malware samples research papers blog
posts from security researchers and
source code now of course it's all
freely available on the VX underground
website but the $500 isn't really for
the content it's a donation to ensure
they can keep building this repository
which wait is that actually a good thing
well let's talk about that the single
biggest hole in most Security Systems
computer or otherwise is trust new
malware pops up every day and defending
against it is a never-ending game
of whack-a-mole that is such a constant
churn of zero day exploits and unpatched
vulnerabilities that it's better to just
assume the worst that is why today's
episode sponsor threat Locker uses a
zero trust approach to security their
endpoint protection platform works by
assuming that applic a are guilty until
they're proven innocent meaning that
users within your organization can't
just accidentally open the wrong email
attachment or program installer and take
down the entire company from the inside
lead to a whole bunch of really bad like
oh I don't know
[Music]
maybe the very first thing I asked when
this video got pitched to me was isn't
this thing kind of dangerous to have
lying around and the answer is yes yes
but also no these mostly aren't ready to
go viruses mostly and while they
absolutely can wreak havoc on your
system if you're not careful you don't
really need to worry about doing a lock
bit on yourself and encrypting your
whole Drive part of the reason for that
is how things are stored most
executables are missing the exe file
extension so the system is far less
likely to automatically run them and
everything else is in a password
protected 7zip archive to prevent it
from being automatically unpacked
furthermore many of these malwares are
older and the only real damage they can
do to a fully updated system is by
overloading Windows Defender threat
detection engine that's what caused the
weird behavior that you saw before of
course many of them are still dangerous
and once you've got them decompressed
and armed all safety is completely out
the windows and also Mac OS and Linux
Borat rat popped up in 2022 and was
referred to as a triple threat because
on on top of granting remote access it
also includes dods and ransomware tools
this seems like exactly the kind of
thing I would want to just run launch
Borat 7z archive in any run Windows 10
or 11 this is Linux yes would you like
me to show you any run they do
sandboxing there's so much resetting and
reimaging and everything in this project
a fun one right oh it's just the best
well interesting at least right it's
interesting it's abs absolutely
interesting it's also uh extremely scary
I mean it's not like you could
single-handedly take down the whole
company if you do anything irresponsible
or
careless Windows 10 or 11 so we'll do
windows 11 here we'll run a public
analysis it's going to start uploading
the file we have 660 seconds to do this
before it implodes implodes oh this
instance just goes away in 10 11 minutes
no matter what that's correct we're
going to launch Bor at. exe so if
someone managed to execute this on your
system this is what would happen this
right here is actually the control panel
for it so this is what the hacker Sees
God it and what I want to do right now
is I'm going to go build a client for
this so I'm going to go just quickly
here build alls yep yeah we'll choose an
icon here let's give it the Borat rat
icon okay so we are going to go build
exe here client.exe is going to save
into the Borat folder and then what we
should be able to do and this works 50%
of the time for me is when we open up
client.exe so this will infect this
instance this is what we would try to
remotely execute on the target system
yeah so we would try and remotely
execute that and you can see that we've
done that we've successfully infected
ourselves it's going to run a couple
it's going to run system info. exe
conhost host name. exe just spit out
absolutely everything that we want to
know about this system here is
everything about it all in just this uh
this text file here and this will get
sent to the attacker probably as fun as
it gets as in the utilities so we can
hide and show our taskbar hide and show
our desktop just to mess with people
yeah oh Mouse is the best swap will swap
around the left and right click dude we
can turn off the webcam light yep most
webcams do work with the webcam light
just kind of hardwired into the camera
circuitry but some of them don't and
that's where this is going to really
exploit it the other thing this is going
to do is allow you to turn on their
webcam light basically activating their
camera but not actually have to do any
it's just a quick way of freaking them
out if they're trying to make threats at
you over the phone while you uh try and
extort them for money fod helper watch
how easy it is to get admin you can see
permission right here it says permission
user over on the right side we're going
to hit fod
helper it's going to restart the
client and oh look admin that's it and
they haven't patched that yet okay what
are we running on yeah 2021 second half
so this is pretty old window
that's good that's that's really good
that that's still unpatched on this
version but it's probably patched
somewhere else I I've not run this for
real I'm very afraid of it obviously
this dashboard here right there's a lot
of lines yep I mean you could have a lot
of clients and you could just poke
around in one anytime you want what's
surveillance do oh surveillance just uh
just lets you watch a little bit you can
remote shell remote screen remote camera
go into their file manager you can
record you can get their uh their
Network information see what's what
processes are running else we got here
uh control so you can send files to them
you can run yep key logger is built into
every malware these days malware is
where it gets real interesting oh I just
pick what malware I want yeah you want
to Dos somebody you can do that
especially if you've got a lot of bots
there uh you can ransomware them so if
you wanted to just do a lock bit on
someone you can just ransomware them
like that there is a way in here to
steal credentials for
Discord it steals the the session token
for Discord so that you can gain access
to somebody's Discord and then start
messaging all their friends start
messaging their friends with your
client.exe which you've just made look
like whatever program you want because
that's part of the whole uh Builder and
this is this is old but it's it's not
that old it's still active in some
regards maybe not this exact version but
clearly there's still people using it
and this kind of thing is only going to
get scarier and scarier when Windows 10
reaches into of Life dude M cuz so many
people are going to stay on Windows 10
and it's not going to be getting
security patches guys patch your
software the stuff that gets patched
isn't what really worries me it's the
zero days there's so many zero days and
there's so much money in this now
especially with all of those hospitals
getting Ransom
weed anyway good
luck practically speaking there is no
limit to what a creative attacker could
do with something like Borat rat we
haven't even touched on some of the
basic functionality like exfiltrating
data popping up text messages so the
attacker can communicate with the victim
but how does it do so much well a big
part of it is thanks to the dll files
that are included these DLS are mostly
feature plugins that are taken from a
fork of DC rat called Santa rat when you
really think about it Borat does look a
bit like a dirty Wizard or a homeless
Santa but that's besides the point the
point is if we run the rat in a malware
sandbox like any run which using here we
can get some idea of how it's executing
individual exploits take the fod helper
exploit for example how is it giving the
rat administrator privileges with almost
no effort whatsoever well we can see
that it makes some registry changes
before launching fod Helper but what
registry changes is it making exactly
searching through the VX drive we can
find the source code for it and see that
it uses UAC bypass method 3 from
options. dll the source code for
options. DL might be missing but as we
know it came from Santa rat so we can
check the source code for that and see
that it's modifying this key in the
registry even if we don't have any
programming knowledge just searching our
virus drive for Borat reveals several
articles that summarize the threat in
slightly more legible terms how can we
use this though well if we're a bad
actor now we know a way to get to a
command prompt window with admin
privileges and we can explain that but
if we're a good actor we know to set up
something to watch that section of the
registry in order to avoid this issue
that is where today's episode sponsor
threat Locker comes in if we try to run
this on a protected machine threat
Locker will block the executable not
because it's a known virus but because
it's trying to execute at all our threat
Locker administrator account can now see
it within Response Center open it up in
a virtualized testing environment to
ensure that it's safe and either keep it
on the block list add it to the allow
list outright or allow it with ring
fencing just in case you're not sure
about the application ring fencing is
the act of limiting what a program can
do like blocking it from connecting to
the internet blocking it from writing to
the registry accessing protected files
or interacting with high-risk
applications like Powershell and command
prompt after all malware can't get
access to an Administrator Command
Prompt if it can't open a command prompt
at all coming back to our VX underground
drive though being able to pone Windows
not exactly a big accomplishment Windows
machines get hacked every day what about
Linux here's the thing web servers
usually run Linux and there's a lot of
things that are trying to Target that a
WordPress server is especially
susceptible to attacks like the c99
backdoor ooh is it demo time WordPress
is often used by wouldbe web Masters
because it is relatively user friendly
at least on the surface and free to use
but not all of the plugins are free
technically because of wordpress's GPL
license all der Works including plugins
are required to use GPL as well that
means that they can charge money but
they also can't stop people from sharing
their code so websites that host cracked
plugins aren't usually able to be taken
down by lawyers they do however often
serve plugins with a little something
extra that might make you want to pay
for plugins from the official Source
they can be used to host sketchy files
they can be used to ransomware your
network and once a back door is
installed other malware can be uploaded
and potentially
executed want to show us how it works
what I've done is gone ahead and just
added uh our back door into one of the
most generic websites of all time yeah
this is a default theme the way that
this could be kind of replicated in real
world other than just through infected
uh themes or plugins is also through
mismanaged upload uh credentials so okay
if you've got user uploads they can
potentially make this happen and uh this
is what the back door actually looks
like so you can see that here we're
going to Local Host into the themes
folder and we're just running this
simple PHP file and now we have access
to everything wait what okay so hold on
a second so my server is serving that
website that's correct and you took
advantage of a misconfigured upload
permission setting yes I just uploaded
this file
and I have this
yes so this could be used to do any
number of things let's say that your
website was hosting um you know a cool
mod for something or or a cool useful
little application I could go in and I
could replace the file with something
completely different and if they don't
bother to actually check the check sum
that I publish on my site although I
could of course overwrite the check sum
as well then they could download a
completely different file execute that
on their computer and boom they're
infected and since everything is usually
done with not the greatest encryption
for PHP websites usually especially
WordPress the encryption on passwords Is
Not Great you could just go in grab the
database and then use I don't know your
RTX 490 at home to right crack the
passwords kind of like in the uh Wi-Fi
cracking video right you should check
out that video If you haven't seen it
already equally scary honestly that's a
little bit less scary than uh than some
of these things because people can steal
your Wi-Fi credentials but this will
allow them to do stuff to you from
anywhere sure but if they're on your
network then it's it's just so
convenient at least you know they're
nearby though that's nice that's true
means I'm not alone now PHP is a just
intime programming language so malware
spreaders need to be a bit more creative
than simply hiding it within a binary
file that's where things like base 64
encoding and GP come into play by
converting everything into unreadable
text that also fits into a single line
in a code editor they can turn 5,000
lines of backd door code into only nine
pretty lines of totally not suspicious
at all gibberish if that gibberish code
gets into a publicly accessible part of
a web server either through
misconfigured file upload permissions or
nefarious WordPress plugins it can be
executed by anyone who knows it's there
with php's eval function nefarious code
can break out of the PHP container and
start executing commands directly on the
operating system now whoa whoa hold on a
second here lonus all this seems pretty
irresponsible are you guys really really
just trusting VX underground and
plugging this drive into a live system
here the answer is no and of course not
even though we're not using any run here
like we were with Windows our sponsor
threat Locker would never forgive us if
we just blindly gave out trust I mean
that's the antithesis of the zero trust
model trusting a stranger is the number
one way to get pwned no worm or back
door can ever match the effectiveness of
a social engineering attack so if a guy
named name smelly tells you that the
drive he gave you contains lots and lots
of malware you should probably believe
him and take the necessary precautions
but what are they well to start with we
set up our Linux machine to be air
gapped okay to clarify no system is
completely immune and it was only a few
months ago that the popular compression
Library XZ was found to contain a back
door but desktop Linux is less likely to
be attacked with simple automated
malware as for air gapping this refers
to the practice of isolating a computer
from the rest of your networked machines
and it can be simulated with vlans but
if you want to be sure I'd recommend
just unplugging it VLAN hopping isn't a
huge risk these days but it isn't
impossible of course if you want to step
up your safety level further you need a
malware sandbox a virtual machine on a
virtual Network that is completely
isolated from any other machine and that
will be destroyed the moment that you no
longer need it threat Locker has their
testing environment feature that allows
you to pass executables that are
quarantined from your protected
computers into their sandbox without any
runs overly restrictive time limit or
the requirement to make your sample
public now we're using any run for
deeper Dives right now simply because it
allows us to upload our samples directly
but threat Locker's Response Center is
more than adequate for 99% of use cases
the two products the sponsored one and
the other one actually complement each
other really nicely to fill different
sand boxing needs threat Locker is great
for production environment work while
any run is better suited for noodling
around shall we noodle some more Hey
look it's the chief noodler himself what
are we looking at now ooh lock bit yeah
we're going to take a quick look at lock
bit so I'm told it's shocking how simple
it actually is that's in the
script this is super cool is this a paid
version of any run yes okay did they
send that over to us they did hey shout
out any run thanks so we're doing the
same thing we did with B rat we're going
to drag it out of here and I did not
passord protect this one
Tanner hey if we get infected I don't
own the
company so here we've got just some
configuration things uh local discs true
Network shares
true yeah so I think it makes my skin
crawl just thinking about something like
this getting on our Network oh have I
clarified that it's a ransomware well
it's a ransomware if I didn't say that
already so now we've got our decrypter
mhm we've got password. dll so that's
the decryption password here if uh if it
is executed through dll the exe version
is a slightly different password but
yeah it's it's essentially here's the
here's the encrypter and then here's the
key that you can provide to the victim
in whatever form you like yeah what a
lot of people have been doing lately is
accepting the payment from their victims
and then not decrypting so that is an
option too that is a that is a whole
other level of yeah so if you uh were to
run lb3
exe and yeah you've now lost everything
that was quick it actually looks you can
set what kinds of files it looks for off
the bat so you can aim for uh databases
first if you want which is what a lot of
places have going after more of a
commercial entity yep see this is the
kind of thing we cover on Wow and we
talk about in the news and and we
discuss but there's a big difference
between you know sort of talking about
what's out there and and these
high-profile attacks and
just seeing how simple the tools are you
want to know I could do this you want to
know how simple some of these are you
know the W to cry virus that was the one
that was that was the ransomware that
was just all over the place for several
years there it got defeated when
somebody went into to the source code
for it
did a whole decompilation found uh found
a line of code in there that kept
calling one particular website address
yeah so they decided to buy the domain
because it hadn't been registered
apparently that domain was just being
used by wan to cry as a kill switch so
they accidentally stopped W to cry the
guy ended up uh getting caught by the
FBI for credit card fraud that he did
earlier in his life and then the judge
at judgment was like n the you know what
the public good that you've done kind of
outweighs whatever credit card fraud so
if you're going to commit credit card
fraud also stop the worst ransomware
attacks in
history of course the groups that are
executing ransomware attacks be they
monoc cry or lock bit or something else
aren't just using ransomware they need
to find a way to infiltrate their
targets organization spread it around
and remain undetected and many of these
tasks require some level of social
engineering so what might start as a
fishing attack could then transition
into a rat being planted which can then
be used to plant the ransomware Borat
rat isn't its own ransomware necessarily
but rather it's a vessel for carrying
many payloads one of which happens to be
lock bit style ransomwares and all of
this is being accomplished by several
competing groups um some are simply
trying to cash in but some clearly have
other goals in mind as there's strong
evidence that many malware groups
operate as part of government entities
North Korea's Lazarus group uh Russia's
berserk bear and Amer America's NSA
equation group are just a few suspected
examples so is this hard drive only for
researchers or could somebody
conceivably use this repository to
create and spread malware possibly in an
act of state sponsored
terrorism don't kid yourself this is on
the blacker side of gray and the only
moral justification for its existence is
that realistically the bad guys have
access to this information anyway and by
shedding light on it we're at least
giving the good gu a hoping chance to
counter any upcoming threats security
through obscurity is a pipe dream and
just like we probably upset some gas
station owners when we made our video on
The Flipper zero we're probably ruffling
some feathers with this one but we feel
it's a valuable conversation to start
and one that we should keep on having
the last question you guys might be
asking is what are we planning to do
with the VX underground hard drive well
the first thing is to put a warning
label on it maybe even a bigger one than
this and then after that I don't know
we've actually had some really cool
ideas for videos in the past that have
required us to intentionally infect a
system but providing real malware to us
is against the policy of every white hat
organization and person that we have
ever interacted with so we have
struggled at times to create for example
an infected system to bring to a shop
for servicing if you have any other
ideas we're open to them but for now
we're going to Fester on it for a little
bit and seeing the kinds of threats that
are not only out there but more numerous
than I previously imagined I guess we'll
look into hardening our security maybe
with some help from our sponsor threat
Locker if you guys liked this video why
don't you check out the time we bought
antivirus USB sticks from
Facebook they were they were USB sticks
all right